---
layout: post
author: okey
title: A first look at methods
---
Page 67 - Methods of the String class

The String class has many uses, but in the book, "A Peek into Java for Nigerian Teenagers", 
the String class has another special use: it helps us to demonstrate the role of methods in Java.
But before we can look at the methods of the String class, we need to familiarize ourselves with 
the role of methods in Java.

First a recap: we know that a class is a prototype, while an object represents a concrete 
manifestation of that prototype. A building plan for a bungalow could be likened to the definition 
of a class, while the bungalow in which you live (or lived) is actually an object of the Bungalow 
class. We defined the Student class in a previous post. Thereafter, we can create hundreds of 
student objects, with each object containing unique information about one particular student.

Thus, each student object will have a distinct piece of data called age. We will regard the 
student's age as an instance variable. We call this an instance variable because each instance 
(or object) of the Student class will have its own copy of this variable. In this context, we 
can also call age a member of the Student class. 

How do we find out a student's age? To find out a student's age, we use a method. The Student class 
has a piece of data called age. To manipulate that piece of data, we need at least two methods: 
one method (setAge) will be used to set the student's age. The other method (getAge) will be used to 
get the student's age. To accommodate these changes, the Student class has been redefined, as shown below:

```
class Student {

  int age;
  
  void setAge(int newAge) {
    age = newAge; 
  }
  
  int getAge() {
    return age; 
  }  
}
```
The Student class now has three members:
- age, an instance variable.
- setAge(), a method that helps us to set a student's age.
- getAge(), a method that helps us to fetch a student's age.

The type of age is int, as shown in the declaration (int age).
The setAge method starts with the word 'void'. This tells us that 
the method does not return any value.
The getAge method starts with the word 'int'. This tells us that 
the method returns an int.

Now that we have looked at the role of methods in Java, we are now 
ready to take on methods of the String class. We will do that in our 
next post. 

