---
layout: post
author: okey
---
Page 10 - Meet the compiler

The task of explaining the contents of the book, "A Peek into Java for Nigerian 
Teenagers", starts with the compiler on Page 10. The compiler is a very important 
part of Java programming, and before you proceed any further, you should make sure 
you understand how it works.

Basically, when you write Java code you have only written something that can be read and
understood by humans. You have not written anything that the machine can understand. At this
stage, you have only written something that can be referred to as source code. You need the
compiler to transform your source code into something the machine can understand.

The compiler is a collection of computer programs, but to aid comprehension, 
students can look upon it in a number of different ways:

- as a teacher who seeks to correct your mistakes.
- as a police officer who tries to enforce the rules of Java.
- as an arbiter who makes the final decision.

In plain language, the compiler will vet your source code. The compiler knows all the rules,
and will always enforce them without fail. If your source code obeys the rules, the compiler 
will compile it. If not, the compiler will tell you (sometimes rudely) why your source file
cannot be compiled.

If your source file is compiled, then you can proceed to the next stage, which is to execute it.
If your source file is not compiled, then you must make necessary corrections, and try once more
to compile your program.
